Net neutrality
Net neutrality basically means that you treat all internet traffic equally. This means that internet service providers cannot prioritize traffic based on the sender/receiver or the content. The internet service providers would therefore not be able to block content or any application.
It became quite the topic, when it was found out, that Comcast, an American internet service provider, was throttling the bandwidth to Netflix.  Netflix consumed the most traffic, and Comcast demanded money in return of not throttling the traffic. This had a big impact on the users experience using Netflix streaming service.  Forcing it costumers to lower the content quality to lower the bandwidth. Comcast like Netflix, also have business in the media business. Comcast is also the largest cable company in the US, which is a competitor to Netflix’s services. Comcast own services would then look more attractive, since its bandwidth would not be throttled. 
The federal communication commission took Comcast to court, which lead the judge with the decision, that Comcast actions were legal, and the federal communication commission would not be able to regulate it, without reclassifying the internet under title II. Since there have been a lot of debate of whether or not the federal communication commission should reclassify the Internet under title II. If the federal communication commission were to reclassify the internet under title II, they would gain jurisdiction over the internet service providers. They would then have the legal right to regulate the internet service providers and impose rules to enforce net neutrality. The internet service providers however is against net neutrality, and have previously proposed fast-lanes, were a company would pay to guarantee a fast and stable connection for its services. This goes against the net neutrality principles of equality between internet traffic. 
Comcast previously had issues with anti-competitive behaviors.  In many states there were local laws in place to prevent competition. In these states, Comcast could operate without competition. This has led to higher prices and a worse service, without possibility to change provider.  Those restrictions were the reason other internet service providers were not able to settle in those states. This was one of the issues google, the search- and advertisement-giant, who is starting their own internet service provider business. Google had previously had to exclude those states, because they were forbidden by law.  Comcast had received public funds to upgrade its infrastructure, however its infrastructure remain not upgraded. Comcast had for a long period of time postponed these upgrade procedures. Comcast had also invested heavily in lobbying politicians. Having one of the largest lobbying budgets of any company in the US, Comcast had a lot of political power. There was a great concern that this would influence the federal communication commission decision regarding reclassifying the internet as a public utility. If the internet would become reclassified as a public utility, the federal communication commission would be able to terminate the state-laws, which forbid competition between internet service providers. This would allow google to expand their internet service provider business into previously restricted markets.  Googles ISP had a lot of success, because they offered more bandwidth without a ridiculous price-tag. 



